DOC-3815: Key concepts - time-windows (#547)
corda/corda-docs-portal: content/en/platform/corda/4.8/open-source/key-concepts-time-windows.md

## Time in a distributed system

The [notary cluster](../../../../../en/platform/corda/4.8/open-source/key-concepts-notaries.md) acts as the *timestamping authority*.
It verifies that a transaction occurred during a specific time-window before notarizing it.

A party obtains a time-window signature in order to prove a transaction happened *before*, *on*, or *after* a particular point in time.
As long as the party is not required to commit to the associated transaction, it can choose to reveal this fact at some point in the future. As a result the notary
timestamps and notarizes at the same time.

> Thus, the time at which the transaction is sent for notarization may be
> different to the transaction creation time. There will never be exact clock synchronization between the party creating the transaction and the notary for two reasons:

Reviewer: This reordering confused me a bit - it made it seem like the fact that the node can reveal the fact later affects the time perception between the node and notary, but I think it might be something more like this:
```suggestion
A node may not send a transaction to the notary right away—they might need to circulate the transaction to other nodes involved in the transaction, or request human sign-off. Even if the node sends it as soon as it's generated, the node's clock and the notary's clock will never be perfectly in sync due to latency and physics. This means that the timestamp on a transaction is usually different from the time it was created.  
```

Reviewer: I also think this paragraph belongs a bit further down — at this point it's not clear why we would care about a tiny lag, but later you learn that this is the reason for time-windows rather than exact times.

This is not only due to issues of physics and network latency, but also because between inserting the command and
getting the notary to sign there may be many other steps (e.g. sending the transaction to other parties involved in the
trade, requesting human sign-off…). Thus the time at which the transaction is sent for notarisation may be quite
different to the time at which the transaction was created.
Thus, the time at which the transaction is sent for notarization may be
different to the transaction creation time. There will never be exact clock synchronization between the party creating the transaction and the notary for two reasons:
* Issues of physics and network latency
* Between inserting the command and getting the notary to sign there may be many other steps, such as sending the transaction to other parties involved in the
trade, or requesting human sign-off.

## Time-windows

For this reason, times in transactions are specified as time *windows*, not absolute times. In a distributed system
there can never be “true time”, only an approximation of it. Time windows can be open-ended (i.e. specify only one of

> “before” and “after”) or they can be fully bounded.

Reviewer: This is the bit that needs to be in the 'time in a distributed system' section, above.

> When both a before and an after time are included, the transaction could have occurred at any point within that time-window.

Reviewer: Can you rephrase this in the active voice?

> By creating a range that can be either closed or open at one end, we allow all the following situations to be
> modelled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Time windows let you represent transactions that follow different models, such as those that occur:
```
Some more style guide notes here: we don't use "we" in docs. It's also ideal to rephrase wordy phrases such as "allows you to" with "lets" and to eliminate necessary phrases like "the following".

For lists, it's better to use a phrase that applies to all the bullet points in the intro section so it's not repeated.

> * A transaction occurring at some point after the given time, such as after a maturity event.
> * A transaction occurring at any time before the given time, such as before a bankruptcy event.
> * A transaction occurring at some point roughly around the given time, such as on a specific day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* At some point after the given time, such as after a maturity event.
* At any time before the given time, such as before a bankruptcy event.
* Around the given time, such as on a specific day.
```

> If a time-window needs to be converted to an absolute time, such for display purposes, there is a utility method to

Author: ```suggestion
If a time-window needs to be converted to an absolute time, such as for display purposes, there is a utility method to
```

> If a time-window needs to be converted to an absolute time, such as for display purposes, there is a utility method to
> calculate the mid-point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to convert a time window to an absolute time, such as for display purposes, you can use a utility method to calculate the midpoint.
```
suggest the active here

{{< note >}}

> It is assumed that the time feed for a notary is [GPS/NaviStar time as defined by the atomic
> clocks at the US Naval Observatory](https://www.usno.navy.mil/USNO/time/display-clocks/simpletime). This time feed is extremely accurate and available globally for free.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most notaries use [GPS/NaviStar time](https://www.usno.navy.mil/USNO/time/display-clocks/simpletime) as defined by the atomic clocks at the US Naval Observatory. This time feed is extremely accurate and available globally for free.
```
